OpenSearch Project Leadership Committee


# Agenda - Meeting Minutes 


### 09 July 2024 / 8:00 AM PT


# ATTENDEES

Present:  Kris Freedain, Jonah Kowell, Andriy Redko, Sam Hermann, Anandhi Bumstead, Eli Fisher, Amitai Stern, Mehul A. Shah, Grant Ingersol

Absent: Charlotte Henkle, Nithya Ruff, Nick Knize


# AGENDA


## Last Meeting Follow-up 


1. [https://github.com/opensearch-project/community/blob/main/leadership-committee/minutes/2024/2024-06-11-minutes.md](https://github.com/opensearch-project/community/blob/main/leadership-committee/minutes/2024/2024-06-11-minutes.md) (no meeting held on 6/25)


## Last Meeting Action Items



* **Action item 1**: (Mehul) -[ opensearch-project/.github#184](https://github.com/opensearch-project/.github/pull/184) - Mehul working through the comments
* **Action item 2** (Sam / Eli) (How do we define roadmaps? Suggestion is submit a proposal for inclusion in the .github MAINTAINERS file/process) 
    * Sam has drafted[ opensearch-project/.github#192](https://github.com/opensearch-project/.github/pull/192) - feedback still coming in. 
    * Overall feedback is how do we make this lighter and less ‘mandatory’ feeling. There are too many overarching pieces to this. Design, requirements, process, template, all in one. Sam will simplify it to an essential ‘best practices’ doc.
    * Sam expects to finish this week \

* **Action item 5** (Eli / Kris) Leadership Committee responsibilities: Add context on how LC has the ability to step in to raise awareness on duplicate work. May include remediation.
    * Target completion date: 7/25
* **Action item 7** (Kris / all) Continue work on adding MAINTAINERS from the community 
    * [OpenSearch Dashboards](https://metrics.opensearch.org/_dashboards/app/dashboards#/view/a987a4b0-d801-11ee-8a84-e3710560950c?_g=(filters:!(),refreshInterval:(pause:!t,value:0),time:(from:now-7d,to:now))&_a=(description:'OpenSearch%20Project%20Insights',filters:!(),fullScreenMode:!f,options:(hidePanelTitles:!f,useMargins:!t),query:(language:kuery,query:''),timeRestore:!t,title:'OpenSearch%20Project%20Insights',viewMode:view) - Report of stats per repo
    * On-going project that dB is writing up. We will work on an audit, and reminders to maintainers to check in on one another. 
    * Bring up metrics in this Agenda - how many did we add, etc
    * Add checks in the weekly triage meetings 
* **Action item 8** (Kris) begin drafting proposal on how we elect new members to LC - likely similar to MAINTAINERS process in the OpenSearch Project
    * Under investigation 


## New Business

*  **Action item 13** Security - how is OpenSearch handling this - Mehul wants to dive in on where we may be able to enhance if needed
* **Action item 14** How do we bring in new plugins/components to the project? Sam noticed [opensearch/issue/11326](https://github.com/opensearch-project/OpenSearch/issues/11326) - we should build a public process for this


# NOTES / Discussion

* In-line with AIs & new business 