OpenSearch Project Leadership Committee


# Meeting Minutes 


### 21 February 2024 / 8:00 AM PT


## ATTENDEES

Present: Anandhi Bumstead, Nithya Ruff, Kris Freedain, Jonah Kowall, Andriy Redko, Grant Ingersoll, Amitai Stern, Samuel Herman

Absent: Nicholas Knize, Mehul A. Shah, Eli Fisher, Charlotte Henkle, 


## AGENDA


### Last Meeting Action Items

1. (Mehul) - [opensearch-project/.github#184](https://github.com/opensearch-project/.github/pull/184#partial-pull-merging) - comments in PR that need to be addressed.  can you add the link to this issue, can't seem to find it for some reason - - yes. Done 
2. (Sam / Eli) How do we define roadmaps? Suggestion is submit a proposal for inclusion in the .github MAINTAINERS file/process - Still WIP
3. (Sam / Eli) Rules of engagement: How do we assign Issues / PRs. Current process and how can this be improved and documented. Self assignment? - Still WIP
4. (Sam) Policy regarding PR comments & changes - Still WIP ([update to RESP](https://github.com/opensearch-project/.github/blob/main/RESPONSIBILITIES.md))
5. (Eli / Kris) Leadership Committee responsibilities: Add context on how LC has the ability to step in to raise awareness on duplicate work. May include remediation. - Still WIP
6. (All / Kris) [3.0 discussion](https://github.com/opensearch-project/.github/issues/186). All - add comments to PR. Kris - follow up with Barani


## New Business

* 2.12.0 release went out! 
* Linux Foundation survey went out. Please provide your input. Share with your audiences [https://www.research.net/r/TLLYRVC?utm_medium=email&_hsmi=294327751&utm_content=294327923&utm_source=hs_email](https://www.research.net/r/TLLYRVC?utm_medium=email&_hsmi=294327751&utm_content=294327923&utm_source=hs_email) 


## NOTES / Discussion

* Action item 1: (Mehul) -[ opensearch-project/.github#184](https://github.com/opensearch-project/.github/pull/184) - comments in PR that need to be addressed. (Mehul absent) 
* Action item 2 & 3: 
    * Barani & Ross from Amazon have began a draft to streamline the process, expand the deliverable to how features are introduced
    * RFC & Design are conflated currently. Need to make it easier to sort product design from meta/rtfc - Core does this fairly well currently, let’s make it more of a standard across the project 
    * Some devs unlikely to write a design doc, how can we set a minimum that is accessible for more devs
        * Mostly for new features
        * Helps to have responsive maintainers
        * Keep design lightweight
    * Stay pragmatic on how this is done, guide maintainers on ways to do this in their respective repos
* Action item 4
    * Take a look at the RESPONSIBILITIES file
        * Adhere to this, or recommend changes - there is a current lack of consistency across the project 
        * Not all comments are addressed prior to merge & this is problematic
        * Sometimes PR descriptions are not there, or unclear
        * This is a maintainer responsibility but does need to be part of, or clearer in the CONTRIBUTING file as well. Actions start with contributors, and are approved with maintainers
        * Is there an auto-check for these standards that would work for the project’s needs to establish community practice
        * We could even provide default responses for devs that don’t want to engage on all comments. (All comments should at least be seen/replied-to) Kris can help provide template responses. 
        * Change from project Admin to LC
        * _Action items_ for Sam/dB/Andriy/Kris
    * Action item 5: still WIP
    * Action item 6: closed


## NEW ACTION ITEMS

1. (Kris & LC) Continue work on adding MAINTAINERS from the community 
    * Is there a to attract more maintainers
    * Consider a mentorship approach
    * LC will remind current maintainers this should be reviewed periodically (quarterly? Provide guidance for cadence) 

 