OpenSearch Project Leadership Committee

## Meeting Minutes

#### 24 January 2024 / 8:00 AM PT

## ATTENDEES

Present: Anandhi Bumstead, Mark Cohen, Eli Fisher, Kris Freedain, Charlotte Henkle, Samuel Herman, Jonah Kowall, Andriy Redko, Nithya Ruff, Mehul A. Shah, Amitai Stern, Daniel Doubrovkine

Absent: Grant Ingersoll, Nicholas Knize

## AGENDA

### Last Meeting Action Items

1. Mehul/Charlotte - write up proposal for how we change release dates
   * [https://github.com/opensearch-project/.github/pull/184#partial-pull-merging](https://github.com/opensearch-project/.github/pull/184#partial-pull-merging) 
   * Release Date change proposal has been submitted: https://github.com/opensearch-project/.github/pull/184#partial-pull-merging 
   * **Action Item** - please comment for discussion next meeting
2. Kris/Eli - propose how we communicate with public 
   * Proposal overview - 'Leadership Committee' folder in the https://github.com/opensearch-project/community repo to house procedural docs, meeting minutes, etc. Also, create custom 'Issue' for community to use enabling them to submit ideas, requests for feedback to the LC.
     **Approved**
3. Kris/Eli - release more discoverable 
   * Proposal overview - Update to the table on the https://opensearch.org/releases.html page. Add columns for name of Release Manager & tracking issue for each version/release.
     **Approved** - WIP

## NEW BUSINESS

* Review/Input - Leadership Committee Meeting Process
  * 
* Transparency of roadmap
  * Examples:
    * [https://github.com/orgs/opensearch-project/projects/143/views/1](https://github.com/orgs/opensearch-project/projects/143/views/1)
    * [https://github.com/orgs/opensearch-project/projects/145/views/1](https://github.com/orgs/opensearch-project/projects/145/views/1)
* Task assignments
  * Examples:
    * [https://github.com/opensearch-project/neural-search/issues/482](https://github.com/opensearch-project/neural-search/issues/482)
* Policy regarding PR comments or request for changes on PRs
  * Examples: 
    * [https://github.com/opensearch-project/ml-commons/pull/1888](https://github.com/opensearch-project/ml-commons/pull/1888)
    * [https://github.com/opensearch-project/ml-commons/pull/1847](https://github.com/opensearch-project/ml-commons/pull/1847)

### NOTES / Discussion

* Leadership Committee Meeting Process
  * Feedback received from LC 
    **Approved** WIP
* Transparency of roadmap & Task assignments  \
  (These two topics were so closely related that the discussion included both)
  * challenging to see what is actually on the roadmap, and what is being talked about in closed meetings. 
  * At times, there is a lack of assignment and response to requests to be assigned. Overall lack of RFC, then an AWS manager will show up and comment that their team is working on it. 
  * roadmap to RFC has a disconnect
  * Issues included in roadmap lack detail, clarity, or assignment
  * This is mainly related to the current roadmap issue/discussion. Smaller task assignment is not an issue
  * OpenSearch GitHub org does not allow self-assignment, which can be common in some open source orgs/repos
  * core issue across the two - assignment early-on would enable individuals, teams, organizations to devote the necessary resources
  * times when there is duplicate work going on 

## NEW ACTION ITEMS

1. All - review Mehul's PR: [https://github.com/opensearch-project/.github/pull/184#partial-pull-merging](https://github.com/opensearch-project/.github/pull/184#partial-pull-merging)
2. (Kris) Finalize and post Leadership Committee Meeting process to ‘Leadership Committee’ folder in Community repo  
3. (Kris / Eli) Bring LC into the 3.0 discussion
4. (Sam / Eli) How do we define roadmaps. Suggestion is submit a proposal for inclusion in the .github MAINTAINERS file/process
5. (Sam / Eli) Rules of engagement: How do we assign Issues / PRs. Current process and how can this be improved and documented. Self assignment? 
6. (Eli / Kris) Leadership Committee responsibilities: Add context on how LC has the ability to step in to raise awareness on duplicate work. May include remediation.
