OpenSearch Project Leadership Committee


# Agenda - Meeting Minutes 


### 01 May 2024 / 8:00 AM PT


# ATTENDEES

Present: Anandi Bumstead, Amitai Stern, Kris Freedain, Andriy Redko, Daniel Doubrovkine, Charlotte Henkle, Samuel Herman, Eli Fisher, Mehul A. Shah

Absent: Nithya Ruff, Nicholas Knize, Jonah Kowall, Grant Ingersoll


# AGENDA


## Last Meeting Follow-up 

1. [https://github.com/opensearch-project/community/blob/main/leadership-committee/minutes/2024/2024-04-03-minutes.md](https://github.com/opensearch-project/community/blob/main/leadership-committee/minutes/2024/2024-04-03-minutes.md) 


## Last Meeting Action Items



* **Action item 1**: (Mehul) -[ opensearch-project/.github#184](https://github.com/opensearch-project/.github/pull/184) - Mehul will address the comments this week
* **Action item 2** (Sam / Eli) (How do we define roadmaps? Suggestion is submit a proposal for inclusion in the .github MAINTAINERS file/process) 
    * Sam has drafted[ opensearch-project/.github#192](https://github.com/opensearch-project/.github/pull/192)
    * Continued discussion and feedback from the community and LC \

* **Action item 5** (Eli / Kris) Leadership Committee responsibilities: Add context on how LC has the ability to step in to raise awareness on duplicate work. May include remediation.
    * Eli / Kris meeting 4/4 to discuss 
* **Action item 7** (Kris / all) Continue work on adding MAINTAINERS from the community 
    * Barani Bikshandi is working on a project - will follow up and get status before next meeting
    * Continued topic (related to Action Item 9 as well) 
    * Also brought up in the ‘[Operations & Project Health Meeting - 2024-03-21](https://forum.opensearch.org/t/operations-project-health-meeting-2024-03-21/18396/2)’ 
    * Helping to continue to define roadmap could help with this
* **Action item 8** (Kris) begin drafting proposal on how we elect new members to LC - likely similar to MAINTAINERS process in the OpenSearch Project
    * WIP
* **Action item 9** (Andriy) Engaging maintainers
    * Andriy has submitted [OpenSearch/issues/12970](https://github.com/opensearch-project/OpenSearch/issues/12970)
* **Action Item 10** - (Amitai) - Northern Star Project Roadmaps/Futures definition


## New Business

* Cover current AI
* Current meeting date/time conflicts for multiple people


# NOTES / Discussion


* 4/17 meeting was canceled - multiple LC members at Open Source Summit North America 
* Action item 9 
    * Keep this going. Important to continue engaging maintainers
    * What metrics can we meaningfully use for this
        * Build this into beginning of LC meeting
        * Should build this into the Operations & Project Health public meetings
* Action items 2 & 10
    * Discussion revealed that the LC felt we would not want to get in the way of people contributing to the project. 
    * Roadmap is a technical discussion. LC can take part in that where needed, like the rest of the project participants. 
    * If people want to build interesting things - lets bring them in. If project starts moving in an unsustainable direction - LC can reconsider this and see if we need to implement a higher level roadmap discussion. 
    * Amitai will add comments into [OpenSearch/issues/12970](https://github.com/opensearch-project/OpenSearch/issues/12970)


# NEW ACTION ITEMS


1.  Move the weekly meeting to a new day of the week - a few people have blockers at current day/time - working through proposals. 
