OpenSearch Project Leadership Committee


# Meeting Minutes 


### 06 March 2024 / 8:00 AM PT


# ATTENDEES

Present: Anandhi Bumstead, Kris Freedain, Jonah Kowall, Andriy Redko, Grant Ingersoll, Amitai Stern, Samuel Herman, Mehul A. Shah, Daniel Doubrovkine, Charlotte Henkle, Eli Fisher

Absent: Nicholas Knize, Nithya Ruff


# AGENDA


## Last Meeting Follow-up

1. [https://github.com/opensearch-project/community/blob/main/leadership-committee/minutes/2024/2024-02-21-minutes.md](https://github.com/opensearch-project/community/blob/main/leadership-committee/minutes/2024/2024-02-21-minutes.md) 


## Last Meeting Action Items



* **Action item 1**: (Mehul) -[ opensearch-project/.github#184](https://github.com/opensearch-project/.github/pull/184) - comments in PR that need to be addressed. (Mehul absent) 
* **Action item 2** (Sam / Eli) (How do we define roadmaps? Suggestion is submit a proposal for inclusion in the .github MAINTAINERS file/process)  \
**Action Item 3** (Sam / Eli) (Rules of engagement: How do we assign Issues / PRs. Current process and how can this be improved and documented. Self assignment?)
    * Barani & Ross from Amazon have began a draft to streamline the process, expand the deliverable to how features are introduced
    * RFC & Design are conflated currently. Need to make it easier to sort product design from meta/rtfc - Core does this fairly well currently, let’s make it more of a standard across the project 
    * Some devs unlikely to write a design doc, how can we set a minimum that is accessible for more devs
        * Mostly for new features
        * Helps to have responsive maintainers
        * Keep design lightweight
    * Stay pragmatic on how this is done, guide maintainers on ways to do this in their respective repos
* **Action item 4** (Sam) Policy regarding PR comments & changes - Still WIP ([update to RESP](https://github.com/opensearch-project/.github/blob/main/RESPONSIBILITIES.md))
    * Take a look at the RESPONSIBILITIES file
        * Adhere to this, or recommend changes - there is a current lack of consistency across the project 
        * Not all comments are addressed prior to merge & this is problematic
        * Sometimes PR descriptions are not there, or unclear
        * This is a maintainer responsibility but does need to be part of, or clearer in the CONTRIBUTING file as well. Actions start with contributors, and are approved with maintainers
        * Is there an auto-check for these standards that would work for the project’s needs to establish community practice
        * We could even provide default responses for devs that don’t want to engage on all comments. (All comments should at least be seen/replied-to) Kris can help provide template responses. 
        * Change from project Admin to LC
        * _Action items_ for Sam/dB/Andriy/Kris
* **Action item 5** (Eli / Kris) Leadership Committee responsibilities: Add context on how LC has the ability to step in to raise awareness on duplicate work. May include remediation. - Still WIP
* **Action item 6** (all) Linux Foundation survey went out. Please provide your input. Share with your audiences [https://www.research.net/r/TLLYRVC?utm_medium=email&_hsmi=294327751&utm_content=294327923&utm_source=hs_email](https://www.research.net/r/TLLYRVC?utm_medium=email&_hsmi=294327751&utm_content=294327923&utm_source=hs_email) 
* **Action item 7** (Kris / all) Continue work on adding MAINTAINERS from the community 
    * Is there a to attract more maintainers
    * Consider a mentorship approach
    * LC will remind current maintainers this should be reviewed periodically (quarterly? Provide guidance for cadence) 



# NOTES / Discussion

* Action item  2: Sam has drafted [https://github.com/opensearch-project/.github/pull/192](https://github.com/opensearch-project/.github/pull/192) 
    * Please review and provide feedback
* Short meeting - mostly covered governance of the project - deferred discussion of above action items to the March 20 meeting


# NEW ACTION ITEMS

1.  Kris will begin drafting proposal on how we elect new members to LC - likely similar to MAINTAINERS process in the OpenSearch Project

