OpenSearch Project Leadership Committee

## Meeting Minutes

#### 07 February 2024 / 8:00 AM PT

## ATTENDEES

Present: Anandhi Bumstead, Eli Fisher, Kris Freedain, Charlotte Henkle,  Jonah Kowall, Andriy Redko, Grant Ingersoll, Amitai Stern, Daniel Doubrovkine

Absent: Nithya Ruff, Nicholas Knize, Samuel Herman, Mark Cohen, Mehul A. Shah

## AGENDA

### Last Meeting Action Items

1. All - review Mehul's PR: [https://github.com/opensearch-project/.github/pull/184#partial-pull-merging](https://github.com/opensearch-project/.github/pull/184#partial-pull-merging)
2. (Kris) Finalize and post Leadership Committee Meeting process to ‘Leadership Committee’ folder in Community repo 
    * Folder: [https://github.com/opensearch-project/community/tree/main/leadership-committee](https://github.com/opensearch-project/community/tree/main/leadership-committee) 
    * Meeting Minutes folder: [https://github.com/opensearch-project/community/tree/main/leadership-committee/minutes](https://github.com/opensearch-project/community/tree/main/leadership-committee/minutes) 
    * Minutes - Template: [https://github.com/opensearch-project/community/blob/main/leadership-committee/minutes/TEMPLATE_minutes.md](https://github.com/opensearch-project/community/blob/main/leadership-committee/minutes/TEMPLATE_minutes.md) 
    * Meeting process: [https://github.com/opensearch-project/community/blob/main/leadership-committee/meeting-process.md](https://github.com/opensearch-project/community/blob/main/leadership-committee/meeting-process.md) 
    * Members file: [https://github.com/opensearch-project/community/blob/main/leadership-committee/MEMBERS.md](https://github.com/opensearch-project/community/blob/main/leadership-committee/MEMBERS.md) 
    * **Complete**
3. (Kris / Eli) Bring LC into the 3.0 discussion
    * [Issue 186](https://github.com/opensearch-project/.github/issues/186) Posted to Slack 1/31
4. (Sam / Eli) How do we define roadmaps. Suggestion is submit a proposal for inclusion in the .github MAINTAINERS file/process
5. (Sam / Eli) Rules of engagement: How do we assign Issues / PRs. Current process and how can this be improved and documented. Self assignment? 
6. (Eli / Kris) Leadership Committee responsibilities on duplicate work: Add context on how LC has the ability to step in to raise awareness on duplicate work. May include remediation.

## NEW BUSINESS

* Policy regarding PR comments or request for changes on PRs
  * Examples: 
    * [https://github.com/opensearch-project/ml-commons/pull/1888](https://github.com/opensearch-project/ml-commons/pull/1888)
    * [https://github.com/opensearch-project/ml-commons/pull/1847](https://github.com/opensearch-project/ml-commons/pull/1847)

### NOTES / Discussion

* **Mehul PR** [https://github.com/opensearch-project/.github/pull/184#partial-pull-merging](https://github.com/opensearch-project/.github/pull/184#partial-pull-merging) 
    * There are comments that need to be addressed. 
    * Will continue conversation in PR & in the next meeting.
* **Action Items 4/5/6**
    * 4 - Still WIP - (Sam / Eli) How do we define roadmaps
    * 5 - Still WIP - (Sam / Eli) Rules of engagement
    * 6 - Still WIP - (Eli / Kris) Leadership Committee responsibilities on duplicate work
* Policy regarding PR comments & changes
    * Still WIP - (Sam)
* **3.0** [Issue 186](https://github.com/opensearch-project/.github/issues/186)
    * Is there a full list of the actual breaking changes?
    * Discussion on whether we could decouple the update/upgrade from Lucene so OpenSearch isn't so dependent. Support for multiple Lucene versions would be a huge and expensive undertaking, unlikely in current state. 
    * Wording on the releases page & in releasing doc designate that major update/breaking changes only with a major and mandatory change. 
    * No actual date for Lucene 
    * Overall recommendation is keep going with minor releases, and when new Lucene comes out, enough major reasons to update, then switch to major mode and work towards a 3.0.
    * Move to major when the majority of active contributors and modules are ready to do so. 
    * -**Action Item**-
        * All - add comments into PR 
        * Kris - Make Barani aware of input from LC

## NEW ACTION ITEMS

1. (Mehul) - opensearch-project/.github#184 - comments in PR that need to be addressed.
2. (Sam / Eli) How do we define roadmaps? Suggestion is submit a proposal for inclusion in the .github MAINTAINERS file/process - Still WIP
3. (Sam / Eli) Rules of engagement: How do we assign Issues / PRs. Current process and how can this be improved and documented. Self assignment? - Still WIP
4. (Sam) Policy regarding PR comments & changes - Still WIP
5. (Eli / Kris) Leadership Committee responsibilities: Add context on how LC has the ability to step in to raise awareness on duplicate work. May include remediation. - Still WIP
6. (All / Kris) 3.0 discussion. All - add comments to PR. Kris - follow up with Barani
