OpenSearch Project Leadership Committee


# Meeting Minutes 


### 03 April 2024 / 8:00 AM PT


# ATTENDEES

Present: Anandi Bumstead, Amitai Stern, Kris Freedain, Andriy Redko, Daniel Doubrovkine, Charlotte Henkle, Jonah Kowall

Absent: Grant Ingersoll, Eli Fisher, Nicholas Knize, Mehul A. Shah


# AGENDA


## Last Meeting Follow-up 



1. [https://github.com/opensearch-project/community/blob/main/leadership-committee/minutes/2024/2024-03-20-minutes.md](https://github.com/opensearch-project/community/blob/main/leadership-committee/minutes/2024/2024-03-20-minutes.md) 


## Last Meeting Action Items



* **Action item 1**: (Mehul) -[ opensearch-project/.github#184](https://github.com/opensearch-project/.github/pull/184) - Mehul will address the comments this week
* **Action item 2** (Sam / Eli) (How do we define roadmaps? Suggestion is submit a proposal for inclusion in the .github MAINTAINERS file/process) 
    * Sam has drafted[ opensearch-project/.github#192](https://github.com/opensearch-project/.github/pull/192)
    * Continued discussion and feedback from the community and LC
* **Action Item 3** 
    * Closing, this has become part of Action Item 2
* **Action item 4** 
    * Closing, this has become part of Action Item 9 \

* **Action item 5** (Eli / Kris) Leadership Committee responsibilities: Add context on how LC has the ability to step in to raise awareness on duplicate work. May include remediation.
    * Eli / Kris meeting 4/4 to discuss 
* **Action item 7** (Kris / all) Continue work on adding MAINTAINERS from the community 
    * Barani Bikshandi is working on a project - will follow up and get status before next meeting
    * Continued topic (related to Action Item 9 as well) 
    * Also brought up in the ‘[Operations & Project Health Meeting - 2024-03-21](https://forum.opensearch.org/t/operations-project-health-meeting-2024-03-21/18396/2)’ 
    * Helping to continue to define roadmap could help with this
* **Action item 8** (Kris) begin drafting proposal on how we elect new members to LC - likely similar to MAINTAINERS process in the OpenSearch Project
    * WIP
* **Action item 9** (Andriy) Engaging maintainers
    * Andriy has submitted [OpenSearch/issues/12970](https://github.com/opensearch-project/OpenSearch/issues/12970)


## New Business



* Anandhi: Open Source Summit NA - April 17 keynote 
* Nithya: LC Naming discussion
* Propose Cancel/Reschedule 4/17 meeting - large group will be away at Open Source Summit. 



# NOTES / Discussion



* Anandhi will be giving a keynote at Open Source Summit NA - April 17. Once slides are compete, would appreciate feedback from the LC
* Should we rename the LC? 
    * Typically, projects give a name of either ‘Technical Advisory Committee’ or ‘Governing Board’ to a group like this
    * We’re still defining the structure of this organization
    * Will wait until later date and reevaluate this question 
* Project Roadmap discussion - ‘Northern Star’ for project
    * Feedback is that the roadmap may be over indexed on topics. One example would be AI. Two plugins; KNN & Neural Search examples of this. 
    * What is our overarching goal for the project? Can we define what to do with conflicts in the roadmap?
        * Can/Should we give direction on this as an LC
        * What would be ‘good’ direction
        * How can we help a PR along
        * How can we leave room for a feature or enhancement to be built, but not detract the project into a direction no one wants to follow, or, in a direction that is likely to result in abandonment 
    * This is related to Sam’s [opensearch-project/.github#192](https://github.com/opensearch-project/.github/pull/192) - but up one level
    * Amitai will take Action Item to propose solution, framework for how we define Project level roadmap - where is the project going in one year, three years (or another way to put it, 3.0 - 4.0, etc) 
* Cancel/propose 4/17 meeting - will decide asynchronous. TBD

# NEW ACTION ITEMS



1. Action Item 10 - Amitai - Northern Star Project Roadmaps/Futures definition 
