OpenSearch Project Leadership Committee


# Agenda - Meeting Minutes 


### 20 Aug 2024 / 8:00 AM PT


# ATTENDEES

Present:   Kris Freedain, Jonah Kowell, Andriy Redko, Amitai Stern, Charlotte Henkle, Nithya Ruff, Anandhi Bumstead, Eli Fisher, Mehul A. Shah, 

Absent: Sam Hermann, Grant Ingersol, Nick Knize


# AGENDA

## Last Meeting Follow-up 


1. [https://github.com/opensearch-project/community/blob/main/leadership-committee/minutes/2024/2024-08-06-minutes.md](https://github.com/opensearch-project/community/blob/main/leadership-committee/minutes/2024/2024-08-06-minutes.md) 


## Last Meeting Action Items



* **Action item 1**: (Mehul) -[ opensearch-project/.github#184](https://github.com/opensearch-project/.github/pull/184) - Mehul working through the comments
* **Action item 5** (Eli / Kris) Leadership Committee responsibilities: Add context on how LC has the ability to step in to raise awareness on duplicate work. May include remediation.
    * WIP - Target completion date: 8/27
* **Action item 7** (Kris / all) Continue work on adding MAINTAINERS from the community 
    * [OpenSearch Dashboards](https://metrics.opensearch.org/_dashboards/app/dashboards#/view/a987a4b0-d801-11ee-8a84-e3710560950c?_g=(filters:!(),refreshInterval:(pause:!t,value:0),time:(from:now-7d,to:now))&_a=(description:'OpenSearch%20Project%20Insights',filters:!(),fullScreenMode:!f,options:(hidePanelTitles:!f,useMargins:!t),query:(language:kuery,query:''),timeRestore:!t,title:'OpenSearch%20Project%20Insights',viewMode:view) - Report of stats per repo
    * On-going project that dB is writing up. We will work on an audit, and reminders to maintainers to check in on one another. 
    * Bring up metrics in this Agenda - how many did we add, etc
    * Add checks in the weekly triage meetings 
    * Looking into a bot/automation to evaluate when maintainers were last active. Inquire whether they should be moved to emeritus. 
    * [OpenSearch-metrics/Issue 57](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-metrics/issues/57) open for discussion
    * #57 is continuing discussion and is part of ‘[Engineering Effectiveness Board](https://github.com/orgs/opensearch-project/projects/208)’
* **Action item 8** (Kris) begin drafting proposal on how we elect new members to LC - likely similar to MAINTAINERS process in the OpenSearch Project
    * Under investigation 
* **Action item 13** Security - how is OpenSearch handling this - Mehul wants to dive in on where we may be able to enhance if needed
    * Current process vs a more open governance process
    * WIP
* **Action item 14** How do we bring in new plugins/components to the project? Sam noticed [opensearch/issue/11326](https://github.com/opensearch-project/OpenSearch/issues/11326) - we should build a public process for this
    * [.github/Issue 209](https://github.com/opensearch-project/.github/issues/209) open for discussion

# NOTES / Discussion

* In-line with AIs & new business 
