OpenSearch Project Leadership Committee


# Agenda - Meeting Minutes 


### 28 May 2024 / 8:00 AM PT


# ATTENDEES

Present:  Kris Freedain, Jonah Kowell, Andriy Redko, Nithya Ruff, Sam Hermann, Anandhi Bumstead, Eli Fisher, Amitai Stern, Mehul A. Shah, Charlotte Henkle, Daniel Doubrovkine

Absent: Grant Ingersol, Nick Knize


# AGENDA


## Last Meeting Follow-up 

1. [https://github.com/opensearch-project/community/blob/main/leadership-committee/minutes/2024/2024-05-14-minutes.md](https://github.com/opensearch-project/community/blob/main/leadership-committee/minutes/2024/2024-05-14-minutes.md) 


## Last Meeting Action Items

* **Action item 1**: (Mehul) -[ opensearch-project/.github#184](https://github.com/opensearch-project/.github/pull/184) - Mehul working through the comments
* **Action item 2** (Sam / Eli) (How do we define roadmaps? Suggestion is submit a proposal for inclusion in the .github MAINTAINERS file/process) 
    * Sam has drafted[ opensearch-project/.github#192](https://github.com/opensearch-project/.github/pull/192) - feedback still coming in.  \

* **Action item 5** (Eli / Kris) Leadership Committee responsibilities: Add context on how LC has the ability to step in to raise awareness on duplicate work. May include remediation.
    * Eli & Kris met - this is a WIP
* **Action item 7** (Kris / all) Continue work on adding MAINTAINERS from the community 
    * Barani Bikshandi is working on a project - will follow up and get status before next meeting
    * Continued topic (related to Action Item 9 as well) 
    * Also brought up in the ‘[Operations & Project Health Meeting - 2024-03-21](https://forum.opensearch.org/t/operations-project-health-meeting-2024-03-21/18396/2)’ 
    * Helping to continue to define roadmap could help with this
    * [OpenSearch Dashboards](https://metrics.opensearch.org/_dashboards/app/dashboards#/view/a987a4b0-d801-11ee-8a84-e3710560950c?_g=(filters:!(),refreshInterval:(pause:!t,value:0),time:(from:now-7d,to:now))&_a=(description:'OpenSearch%20Project%20Insights',filters:!(),fullScreenMode:!f,options:(hidePanelTitles:!f,useMargins:!t),query:(language:kuery,query:''),timeRestore:!t,title:'OpenSearch%20Project%20Insights',viewMode:view) - Report of stats per repo
* **Action item 8** (Kris) begin drafting proposal on how we elect new members to LC - likely similar to MAINTAINERS process in the OpenSearch Project
    * WIP
* **Action item 9** (Andriy) Engaging maintainers
    * Andriy has submitted [OpenSearch/issues/12970](https://github.com/opensearch-project/OpenSearch/issues/12970)
    * Should we ask Barani to add to the [Metrics they just rolled out](https://metrics.opensearch.org/_dashboards/app/dashboards#/view/a987a4b0-d801-11ee-8a84-e3710560950c?_g=(filters:!(),refreshInterval:(pause:!t,value:0),time:(from:now-7d,to:now))&_a=(description:'OpenSearch%20Project%20Insights',filters:!(),fullScreenMode:!f,options:(hidePanelTitles:!f,useMargins:!t),query:(language:kuery,query:''),timeRestore:!t,title:'OpenSearch%20Project%20Insights',viewMode:view))? (data on who’s doing what)
    * Would we consider adding elephant and pony factors to the report?  To make sure we are creating a diverse team of contributors. [https://chaoss.community/kb/metric-elephant-factor/](https://chaoss.community/kb/metric-elephant-factor/)  and [https://bitergia.com/blog/metric-of-the-month/the-pony-factor-metric-of-the-month-november-2022/](https://bitergia.com/blog/metric-of-the-month/the-pony-factor-metric-of-the-month-november-2022/) 
* **Action Item 12** (Kris/community) OpenSearch mascot - [Community/Issue-24](https://github.com/opensearch-project/community/issues/24) - continue to collect ideas


## New Business

* Had a short meeting due to other priorities for many attendees
* Community discussion on a mascot: [https://github.com/opensearch-project/community/issues/24](https://github.com/opensearch-project/community/issues/24) 


# NOTES / Discussion

* in-line with AIs
